Add the new getting started content (#10596)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/new-to-posthog/getting-hogpilled.mdx

Reviewer: The big problem I have with this is that PostHog is more than just product analytics. I'm not even sure it is a good place to start. Web analytics, autocapture, and session replay (maybe even surveys) are all likely more useful in the earliest days.

Reviewer: Basically like this: https://posthog.com/founders/early-stage-analytics

Reviewer: Also, think about the goal of this: motivating people to install PostHog. It feels like we shove a lot of concepts that don't help us with this goal like talking about event naming.

Author: > motivating people to install PostHog. It feels like we shove a lot of concepts that don't help us with this goal like talking about event naming.

Oh, interesting. No, the goal is not getting people to install PostHog.

People install PostHog and get docs guidance for doing so by onboarding into the product and following the workflow with the little platform picker and snippet provider.

The goal here is to get people to use their integration for the greatest possible leverage, and to have the shared mental model to not fuck it up.

Reviewer: Could it be part of this section then? 

https://posthog.com/products

Author: > Could it be part of this section then?
> [posthog.com/products](https://posthog.com/products)

I feel confident this content belongs in docs. Here's why:

If the ceiling on our docs is model field tables, explanations of function calls, and rote instruction on which function to call to achieve a given outcome, that limits our impact.

1. Sales has to repeat itself *a lot*, and building consensus inside the customer organization is an ongoing slog. These docs are written based on the most common stuff sales has to hammer home all the time to get people to actually succeed with PostHog, for the most common business case we encounter: B2B or B2C companies with fixed, recurring revenue models.
2. Only customers who have a relationship with sales will get cohesive guidance on laying their basic metrics foundation. Everyone else will have to either hunt around dozens of blog posts to assemble this context, or give up. 
3. The overall mental model of what you *get* from measuring business outcomes fails to propagate.

So we get this right, we help multiply the impact of every person selling PostHog, we improve the likelihood that smaller teams who aren't yet working with sales get further, and everyone can know what to actually do for maximum impact after the snippet is installed.

I got to ride shotgun while a PostHog integration went sideways. Brand new startup, tiny team, relatively simple communication structure. Smart guys. But they had zero model of things like activation (which they desperately needed to measure) and everything went more poorly for it. They just didn't understand what PostHog was *for* in their mission, nor did they know where to start to build their confidence in the path forward.

Related, I got this email the other day, following up on a docs-related gripe from a new user:

> As part of a team that's relatively new to analytics, we find PostHog's vast array of features a bit overwhelming. A basic "getting started" guide—something like a simple to-do list after installing the SDK—would be immensely helpful.

> Right now, it's easy to get lost in the documentation. The content is extensive and well-structured, but for someone completely new to analytics, it can feel a bit tedious to navigate. While the current docs are great for users starting with PostHog, they might not be as approachable for those who are new to analytics in general.

---
title: "Getting HogPilled: how to win with PostHog"
nextPage: ./activation.mdx
---

import { AnalyticsPlannerTip } from 'components/Docs/AnalyticsPlannerTip'
import { Admonition } from 'components/Docs/Admonition'

<AnalyticsPlannerTip />

Most startups fail, and most startups that win do it by accident. 

We can do better.

> A strong approach to product analytics lets us **win on purpose**. We define success as a number we can measure, then describe the user behavior that feeds that number.

Reviewer: Can success be boiled down to setting a specific metric and trying to optimize for it? I feel like this isn't true as a core principle.

This allows us to track if a product is meeting its business goals over time, and use that information to iterate into more impact for customers and profitability for ourselves.

Here's how.

# North Star metric

> We start with a number that represents the health of our immediate goals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We start with a number that represents the health of your immediate goals.
```

It's not going to be revenue.

> Instead, we want to count something that's a **precursor to revenue**. Something where, if it doesn't happen, we don't have a business. Examples from businesses you've heard of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, you want to count something that's a **precursor to revenue**. Something where, if it doesn't happen, you don't have a business. Examples from businesses you've heard of:
```

**Facebook**: Daily active users  
**Airbnb**: Nights booked  
**Uber**: Number of rides

> See how easy it is to understand these numbers? A good North Star is measurable and easy to communicate. Everyone on the team, no matter their role, grasps their relationship to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See how easy it is to understand these numbers? A good North Star is measurable and easy to communicate. Everyone on your team, no matter their role, will grasp their relationship to it.
```

Because events often happen in a predictable sequence, we can use that sequence to learn if users are getting stuck or bailing out.

This is called a **funnel**.

Funnels are simple: they measure successful progress between events. More people will launch the app than start a ride, but you still want to maximize the progress from one to the other. A funnel lets you understand how well that's going.

If there's a sharp drop between, say, accepting a ride and starting one, that could point to an issue that needs to be fixed in the product.

Funnels give us the information we need to diagnose problems and measure the impact of new solutions. We'll want to make sure we capture just enough event data to measure the critical path between starting in our product and succeeding with it.

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Planning a metrics tree">

Recap your traction goal and North Star metric, then think about the events that drive that metric.

These are the events that must be captured as part of integrating PostHog.

</Admonition>

# Integration planning

Now:

- We know what we're measuring  
- We know why we're measuring it  
- We know what events lead to the outcome we want

> With these details in-hand, we can make a plan to capture the data we need. This data collection will help us understand how users interact with our product, and how well our product meets our goals.

Reviewer: - Autocapture take the wheel -> watch session replays to figure out what autocaptured events represent your goals -> turn those into actions?
- Trigger alerts on north star metrics completion, send to Slack, and celebrate
- Use it as a conversion in the web analytics dashboard to get a view at a glance

<Admonition icon="IconWarning" title="Avoid event pitfalls" type="caution">

> Ideal event names are self-explanatory, avoiding strange abbreviations or codes. Don't stuff data into event names – they should be **comparable across all users** of your product. Instead, we want to tuck additional data into [properties](/docs/data/events#event-properties) *on* events.

Reviewer: You sort of repeat yourself by talking about pitfalls and naming here, maybe just save for the gotchas/things to think about section

---
title: "Getting HogPilled: how to win with PostHog"
nextPage: ./activation.mdx
---

import { AnalyticsPlannerTip } from 'components/Docs/AnalyticsPlannerTip'
import { Admonition } from 'components/Docs/Admonition'

<AnalyticsPlannerTip />

> Most startups fail, and most startups that win do it by accident. 
> 
> We can do better.
> 
> A strong approach to product analytics lets us **win on purpose**. We define success as a number we can measure, then describe the user behavior that feeds that number.
> 
> This allows us to track if a product is meeting its business goals over time, and use that information to iterate into more impact for customers and profitability for ourselves.
> 
> Here's how.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most startups fail. 

The ones that win often do it by accident.

We can do better.

This guide will help you **win on purpose**. We start by defining success as a number we can measure, then describe the user behavior that feeds that number.

After that, we're going to:

- Measure if users find the value of your product
- Determine if they come back and how often
- Track the lifeblood of your business: revenue

Here's how.
```

<Admonition icon="IconWarning" title="Avoid event pitfalls" type="caution">

Ideal event names are self-explanatory, avoiding strange abbreviations or codes. Don't stuff data into event names – they should be **comparable across all users** of your product. Instead, we want to tuck additional data into [properties](/docs/data/events#event-properties) *on* events.

Be warned: PostHog's event storage is 'write only' for all practical purposes. You can't edit existing events, so it's important to design against naming drift. Pick a [naming convention](/docs/product-analytics/best-practices#3-implement-a-naming-convention) and stick with it.

</Admonition>

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Planning user identification">

What **unique identifier** should be used to identify users? Ideally, this is an ID from the database that won't change, but an email address can work too.

Where will `identify()` be called? Typically `identify()` is invoked in the client, but some architectures, like SSR web apps, will call it on the server.

</Admonition>

### User identity

Complex authentication flows and tracking anonymous users from both client and server can complicate identifying users.

> PostHog enforces some rules use of the identify function to prevent users from being merged incorrectly. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog enforces some rules use on how you use the identify function to prevent users from being merged incorrectly. 
```

---
title: "Getting HogPilled: Winning with PostHog"
nextPage: ./activation.mdx
---

import { AnalyticsPlannerTip } from 'components/Docs/AnalyticsPlannerTip'
import { Admonition } from 'components/Docs/Admonition'

<AnalyticsPlannerTip />

Most startups fail. The ones that win often do it by accident.

We can do better. 

This guide will help you **win on purpose**. You'll start by defining success as a number we can measure – aka your North Star metric.

> Then you'll describe the user behavior that feeds that number. This will leave you with a collection of events you can track using insights in PostHog.

Reviewer 2: wefgerwlgkh

> Then you'll describe the user behavior that feeds that number. This will leave you with a collection of events you can track using insights in PostHog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you'll describe the uwegverwbverwser behavior that feeds that number. This will leave you with a collection of events you can track using insights in PostHog.werbverwbvw
```

> After that, we're going to:

Reviewer 2: qwefwefewfg

- Measure if users find the value of your product – [measuring activation](/docs/new-to-posthog/activation).

> - Determine if they come back and how often – [tracking retention](/docs/new-to-posthog/retention).

Reviewer 2: qwfewfewfewf

> - Determine if they come back and how often – [tracking retention](/docs/new-to-posthog/retention).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Determine if they come back andwseewvewvewfg we w-to-posthog/retention).
```

- **Airbnb**: Nights booked  
- **Uber**: Number of rides

See how easy it is to understand these numbers? A good North Star is measurable and easy to communicate. Everyone on your team, no matter their role, will grasp their relationship to it.

If you're *super* early, you could start with a metric like signups: how many people care enough to try your product? 

But, as soon as possible, you need a hypothesis of what your users are trying to achieve, and a metric that describes it. 

It doesn't need to be perfect – a good guess is enough to help you understand what events and actions you need to track – so pick the first thing that feels right and iterate from there.

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Plan your North Star">

What does traction look like for your business? Which metric corresponds to traction right now? 

Call that your **North Star metric**. Your metric can change as your product evolves, but there should only be one.
</Admonition>

## Defining your v0 metrics tree

Once you've chosen your North Star metric, you can back out to the **user behavior** that feeds it.

Below is a simple version of metrics tree where events influence your North Star metric.

> <img height="700" alt="abstract-metrics-tree" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/abstract_metrics_tree_c737164554.png" />

Author: I don't want to use Squeak in docs, it's way too noisy and bombastic.

I'm going to punt on full light/dark for now because I want to get these in the queue for a proper design revision. But no reason they can't adhere to those colors, shall revise.

If you're *super* early, you could start with a metric like signups: how many people care enough to try your product? 

But, as soon as possible, you need a hypothesis of what your users are trying to achieve, and a metric that describes it. 

It doesn't need to be perfect – a good guess is enough to help you understand what events and actions you need to track – so pick the first thing that feels right and iterate from there.

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Plan your North Star">

What does traction look like for your business? Which metric corresponds to traction right now? 

Call that your **North Star metric**. You metric can change as your product evolves, but there only be one.
</Admonition>

## Defining our v0 metrics tree

With a North Star in mind, we can back out to the **user behavior** that feeds it.

<img height="700" alt="abstract-metrics-tree" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/abstract_metrics_tree_c737164554.png" />

**Events** are things that users do that we can track in code, and then measure across all usage of the product.

> And numerous singular events have to occur to drive your North star metric. Let's go back to the Uber example.

Author: ```suggestion
Several distinct events have to occur to drive your North star metric. Let's go back to the Uber example.
```
